# [JLCPCB](https://jlcpcb.com/HOT) SMT Assembly Process


## Introduction

### Definition: What is SMT?

Surface-mount technology (SMT) is an electronic component assembly technology on the printed circuit boards, where the components are soldered on the board surface using batch solder-reflow processes.

### Antonyms: On the contrary

There are other methods, where the component leads are inserted into plated through-holes and wave soldered from the bottom to fill in the holes and interconnect the components.

### Analogous: Similar buzzwords

Though not often used as SMT, these terms are used and may be misused.

* SMD - Surface Mount Device.
* SMC - Surface Mount Components
* SMA - Surface Mount Assembly
* SMP - Surface Mount Package
* SME - Surface Mount Equipment

### Overview of SMT Assembly Process at [JLCPCB](https://jlcpcb.com/HOT)

Strictly speaking, SMT Assembly should mean an assembly process for surface mount devices and components.
But when ordering on [JLCPCB](https://jlcpcb.com/HOT), SMT Assembly also includes assembly processes for through-hole components.

[JLCPCB](https://jlcpcb.com/HOT) SMT Assembly follows just after the PCB Fabrication and Stencil making process.

1. Applying Solder Paste
2. Pick & Place
3. Reflow Soldering
4. Wave Soldering and Hand Assembly
5. Testing


## Applying Solder Paste: Mezzanine upon Copper Pads

Solder paste is a mezzanine on copper pads, which makes components being soldered tight.
The first step after PCB fabrication is applying solder paste using a stencil. A PCB stencil is a stainless steel paper, where laser-cut open holes are made for component placements. The stencil is laid on top of the PCB. The solder paste is spread on the stencil. The material of solder paste used depends on whether it's lead-free or not. Solder of lead-free PCB is composed of tin, silver, and copper. The spread solder paste makes the soldering joints stronger in the next steps.


## Pick & Place: Automated Placement of Components

Pick-and-place is a process of picking and placing components on the board automatically.
This is for placing the components in the right position, in the right orientation. A pick and place machine is a dedicated robot for SMT assembly. The pick and place data file, that is generated by EDA software, is loaded to the machine. The robotic arm usually has vacuum nozzles to pick and release components rapidly.


## Reflow Soldering

Reflow soldering is mostly used for SMT components.
Why is it named "reflow"? The components are still temporarily attached to the solder paste. In this process, the solder paste reflows in a molten state. As a result, permanent and tight junctions are made between contact pads and components.
Hot gas or infrared is used for melting solder pastes in the reflow soldering process. The board goes under pre-defined thermal statuses - preheat, thermal soak, reflow, cooling. Timing and temperature are important to ensure the quality of junctions made.


## Wave Soldering and Hand Assembly

When the through-hole components are in the design, wave soldering or hand assembly process is followed. For batch soldering for through-hole devices, the wave soldering process is used. The board is passed over a molten solder. The molten solder forms an upwelling wave and solder is filled into the holes. There are 3 steps in wave soldering - fluxing, preheating, and cleaning.
The solder used in wave soldering usually includes Pb. For RoHS standard, lead-free solder - pure tin is used. Similar to reflow soldering, thermal profiling is important to ensure quality.
There may be other types of hand assembly, such as installing heatsinks and screws.


## Testing

Testing can be done after the whole process, or after each step is finished. There are two kinds of testing - inspection vs functional testing.
Visual inspection, flying probe testing, optical inspection, and X-ray inspections are inspection methods, that are applied during manufacturing or a the end of production. In inspection testings, the board is not powered and not functioning. All testings are static and for ensuring that the board is manufactured correctly according to the design.
Functional testing is based on the testing instructions provided by the customer. In small PCBA prototyping, this can also help to find design faults before going to batch production.


---
